Use the Calendar to set your active date range ¨C the time period for which you want to look at data. 
Select date ranges by clicking on the day and month within the calendar or you can type dates in the ¡°Date Range¡± boxes.
Once you set a date range, it stays active until you change it, or log out.
You can use a comparison date range to see how your site is performing month over month, year over year or even from one day to another.
The date range and comparison date ranges you select will apply to all your reports and graphs. 
Most reports include an over-time graph at the top. You can make this graph display data by day, week, or month.
You can attach short notes or annotations to specific dates. Annotations are especially useful when you¡¯re looking at historical data and wondering whether certain campaigns or outside events had some effect on your traffic.

To add an annotation, just click the date on the graph and select ¡°Create new annotation¡±.
You can allow anyone with access to the profile to see the annotation, or make it private so that only you see it.   
Most reports include an over-time graph at the top. You can make this graph display data by day, week, or month.
You can attach short notes or annotations to specific dates. Annotations are especially useful when you¡¯re looking at historical data and wondering whether certain campaigns or outside events had some effect on your traffic.

To add an annotation, just click the date on the graph and select ¡°Create new annotation¡±.
You can allow anyone with access to the profile to see the annotation, or make it private so that only you see it.   
A metric is a measurement. Examples of metrics are ¡°number of visits¡±, ¡°pages viewed per visit¡±, and ¡°average time on site¡±. 
Metrics appear in scorecards and as columns in tables. 
Metrics can also be graphed.
You can graph any metric in a scorecard, simply by clicking it. Here, we¡¯ve graphed Average Time on Site.
You can compare two metrics on the same graph to see how they are correlated.
Click Compare Metric and select from the drop down.

In this example, we¡¯re adding Average Time on Site to the graph.
Groups of metrics are organized into tabs.
The Site Usage tab shows metrics such as the number of pages viewed per visit, the average time on site, and the bounce rate.
Goal Set tabs shows the conversion rates for each of your goals.
If you¡¯ve enabled ecommerce, you¡¯ll also see an Ecommerce tab. 

The AdWords reports have an additional tab called Clicks. This tab contains AdWords related metrics such as clicks, cost, revenue per click and ROI.

The AdSense tab contains AdSense metrics such as revenue from AdSense and AdSense ads clicked.
Many reports contain tables. These tables usually break out your data by a single dimension.
Each row in the table shows the data for a different value of the dimension.
In this example, the dimension being shown is City. Each row contains the data for a different city.
Each row in this table corresponds to a kind of browser ¨C Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome and so on.
So, this table is showing data for different values of the dimension ¡°Browser¡±.

The Viewing option above the table lets us change the dimension. If we click Operating System as the Viewing Option, the table shows data for each kind of operating system.
We can also add a secondary dimension. This lets us see data for each combination of two dimensions. 
In this example, the table shows data for each operating system. 
Let¡¯s look at what happens if we select Browser as a secondary dimension. 
Now we can see data for each Operating System and Browser combination. 
So, we can see data for Windows and Firefox, Windows and Chrome, Macintosh and Safari, Macintosh and Chrome, and so on.

 
To filter the data that appears in a table, click the Search option above the table. 
In this example, we¡¯re excluding visits from London and New York and also excluding any visits in which there were fewer than 2 pages viewed.

 
The View option lets you visualize data in different ways.  
The Data view organizes your report data into a table. This is the default view for many reports. 
The Percentage view creates a pie-chart based on any one of the metrics in the report.
The Performance view shows a bar-graph based on any metric you select.
The Comparison view allows you to quickly see whether each entry in the table is performing above or below average.
Term Cloud helps you visualize your keywords.
Pivot creates a pivot table in which both rows and columns can break out dimension values. 
In this example, we can see how many visits were referred by each combination of keyword and search engine. 
Keywords are shown as rows and search engines are shown as columns.

You can select the metrics you want to display in the table and the dimensions.
Columns within tables can be sorted in both ascending and descending order simply by clicking on the column heading. 
The arrows next to the heading title indicate the order in which the results are listed. 
A down arrow indicates descending order and an upward arrow indicates ascending order.
By default, all reports with tables display ten rows. 
To display more than ten rows, go to the bottom of your report and click the dropdown menu arrow next to ¡°Show rows¡±. 
You can display up to 500 rows per page.
An advanced segment is a subset of your data. 

For example, by selecting Visits with Transactions, you can limit your analysis to just the visits during which a person bought something.
If you apply a single advanced segment, all your reports are limited to the data in that segment until you select a different segment.
You can always go back to seeing all your data by selecting the All Traffic segment.

By default, all reports with tables display ten rows. 
To display more than ten rows, go to the bottom of your report and click the dropdown menu arrow next to ¡°Show rows¡±. 
You can display up to 500 rows per page.
An advanced segment is a subset of your data. 

For example, by selecting Visits with Transactions, you can limit your analysis to just the visits during which a person bought something.
If you apply a single advanced segment, all your reports are limited to the data in that segment until you select a different segment.
You can always go back to seeing all your data by selecting the All Traffic segment.


You can select up to four segments at a time. This allows you to compare data for each segment side by side as you go through your reports.
In this case, we¡¯ve selected three segments: Visits with Transactions, Search Traffic, and Paid Search Traffic. 

The Advanced Segment pulldown shows two kinds of segments: Default Segments and Custom Segments.
Default Segments are predefined and available to anyone using Google Analytics.
Custom Segments are segments that you define. We¡¯ll learn how to create custom segments in later lesson.
