The reports in the Traffic Sources section show you where your traffic is coming from on the internet. 

You can compare your traffic sources against each other to find out which sources send you the highest quality traffic.
Direct Traffic represents visitors who clicked on a bookmark to arrive at your site, or who typed the URL directly into their browser.

Referring Sites include any sites that send traffic to you. These could be banner ads or links featured on blogs, affiliates, or any site that links to your site. 

Search Engine traffic represents visitors who click on a search results link in Google, Yahoo, or any other search engine. 

Search Engine traffic can be organic -- in other words, free search results -- or paid. 

Paid search engine traffic is pay per click or cost per click traffic that you purchase from a search engine -- for example on Google AdWords.

Understanding which search engines send you qualified traffic can help you select the search engines on which you want to advertise.


Looking at the highest traffic drivers is a start, but it doesn¡¯t tell you whether the traffic was qualified.

In other words, did the traffic help you achieve the goals you¡¯ve set for your site? 

One easy indicator of quality is Bounce Rate -- the percentage of visits in which the person left without viewing any other pages. 

In the slide, although blogger.com sent the most traffic, it has an 88% bounce rate.  A bounce rate this high suggests that the site isn¡¯t relevant to what the visitor is looking for

By clicking the ¡°compare to site average¡± icon and selecting a comparison metric,  you can see which sources outperform and underperform the site average. 

So here, for example, if we select Bounce Rate as our comparison metric. we can see that the two most popular sources of traffic underperform the site average.

One note about bounce rate, if your site is a blog, bounce rate may not be relevant. With blogs,  it¡¯s common for people to look at a single page and then leave.  





The All Traffic report lists all of the sources sending traffic to your site -- including referrals, search engine traffic, and direct traffic

This report is particularly helpful because you can identify your top performing sources, regardless of whether they are search engines or sites. 

For example, in the report, we see that blogger.com referred more traffic than any other source. It has a medium of referral because it is a referral from a site.

The second most popular source of traffic was direct. Direct traffic always has a medium of (none).

Free Google search engine traffic was the fourth largest referrer. 

The medium of organic tells us that this traffic came from clicks on unpaid search engine results. 

The medium of cpc on this entry -- for cost per click -- tells us that this traffic came from paid search results.

You may sometimes see _referrals_ from google.com. These can come from Google Groups posts or static pages on other Google sites.
If you have goals or ecommerce set up on your site, you have a much wider range of metrics with which to assess performance. 

Click on the Goal Set or Ecommerce tabs to view which sources are driving conversions and purchases.

In this case, we¡¯re looking at metrics on the Ecommerce tab and comparing each traffic source¡¯s revenue with the site average. 


To see the keywords that people used to find your site, go the Search Overview under Incoming Sources in the Traffic Sources section.
Then, in the Search Overview report, click Keyword as the viewing option. 
Looking at keywords is a very useful for understanding what visitors were expecting to find on your site. 

Keywords with a high bounce rate tell you where you failed to meet that expectation.  

For example, in the slide example, the ¡®google games¡¯ phrase has a 84% bounce rate. Let¡¯s find out what landing page is being used. 

We start by clicking on the ¡®google games¡¯ entry in the table.
This takes us to the Keyword report for ¡®google games¡¯. 

To find out which landing page is being used for this keyword, we¡¯ll click Other as the Viewing Option above the table, and select Landing Page.
We can now see which landing page is being used and evaluate it¡¯s relevance to the keyword. 

This report can be particularly helpful if multiple landing pages are being used.

You can find out which landing pages are responsible for the poor performance and send the keyword traffic to the most effective landing page. 

Be sure to also check the bounce rates for organic, non-paid keywords. This information can offer insights into how to best focus your search engine optimization efforts. 
By default, Google Analytics attributes a conversion or sale to the campaign that most recently preceded the conversion or sale.

For example, if a visitor clicks on an AdWords ad (Campaign 1 in the first session) and then later returns via a referral to purchase something (Referrer 1 in the second session), the referral will get credit for the sale.

However, if instead the visitor returns directly, then the AdWords ad (Campaign 1) will still get credit for the sale. 

To prevent a specific referral or campaign from overriding a prior campaign, simply append ¡°utm_nooverride=1¡± to all referring campaign links as shown in the slide. This ensures that the conversion is always attributed to the original referrer (or first campaign the user clicked on). 

Therefore, in the example above, the original campaign will continue to get credit for the conversion.

If a visitor returns via a link without the utm_nooverride, as in the third example, that campaign will get credit for the sale since it overwrites all previous referring campaigns.

