Click the Account Administration icon to manage your accounts, web properties, profiles, and user access. (You can find the icon at the top right of any screen in Google Analytics.)
You¡¯ll be taken to the Account Administration screen which lists all of the Analytics accounts to which you have access.  
The ¡±Plus New Account¡± button is how you would create a new analytics account under the login that you are currently using.

So, when should you create a new account? If you manage the analytics services for several websites which belong to different organizations, you¡¯ll generally want to create a new account for each organization. We¡¯ll discuss this best practice in a few minutes.

You are permitted to create up to  25 analytics accounts per Google username. However, you can be added as an administrator to an unlimited number of accounts.

To administer an account, just click on it in the table.

To give other users access to a Google Analytics account, click on the account name in the Account Administration screen.
You¡¯ll be taken to a screen similar to the one shown in the slide.
Click the User tab.

All of the users who currently have access to the account will be listed in the table.
There is a settings link for each user in the table. Click this link to edit the user¡¯s name, email address, or to change their Role ¨C either administrator or user.
There are two Roles. ¡°Administrators¡± have access to all reports and they can also modify settings. 
So, Administrators can create profiles, filters, and goals, and they can add users.

Users only have read access to your reports and they can¡¯t modify analytics settings.  Also, ¡°Users¡± can be restricted to viewing only specific profiles.  
To add a user, click the Plus New User button.  

A screen that looks like this will appear.  Enter the user information in the form. 
In order for you to add a new user, they must have a Google Account. 
If they don¡¯t have a Google Account, ask them to create one at google.com/accounts.
Select a Role for the new user. 
You can either grant read-only access to certain reports or you can make them an administrator. Remember that administrators can view all reports and modify account settings.
If you select User as the role, the interface will show you a list of all profiles associated with your account. 
Select the profiles you would like this user to have access to and click the ¡°Add¡± button to apply your changes.


To modify access for an existing user, find the user on the Users tab and click settings.
You can change the user¡¯s role or change the profiles he or she can access.
Select the profiles you would like to remove report access to and click the ¡°Remove¡± button.
Remember that an administrator has full administrative access to all profiles within the account. 

If you manage the analytics services for several websites which belong to different organizations, the best practice is to create a separate Analytics account for each organization.
Otherwise, if you were to group all the websites of all the different organizations into a single account, any Administrators you created on the account would have access to all the reports for all the websites.
Not only would the administrators be able to see the reports of other organizations, they¡¯d also be able to change analytics settings on profiles that don¡¯t belong to them.
This raises the potential for an Administrator to accidentally edit -- or even delete -- another organization¡¯s settings and data.
If you want to change your e-mail login, create a new Google account.  Add your new login as an administrator to your Google Analytics account.
Profiles
A profile is a set of rules that defines the data you see for a web property. For example, you might have web property example.com for which you have three profiles.
One of the profiles might show all the data for all the traffic that comes to example.com.
Another profile might use filters to only show the data for traffic to a certain subdirectory.
Still another profile might use a different set of filters to show only another subset of data.


To see a list of the profiles that belong to a specific web property, navigate to that web property from the Account Administration screen.
Once you are on the screen for the web property, click the Profiles tab. On the Profiles tab, you¡¯ll see a Profile selector menu that lists all the profiles. 

Profiles are very flexible -- they are basically just a set of rules that define what data is to be included in the reports.
Here is a schematic showing an Analytics account with one web property and two profiles. 
Both profiles contain traffic data for the example.com web property. 
One profile might contain all the traffic data. 
The other profile might be filtered so that it contains only traffic from AdWords visitors.
In addition, you might want to give certain users access only to the filtered profile. This has the effect of only allowing these users to see AdWords traffic to example.com.



Here is the Profiles tab for the ¡°example.com test 1¡± profile. 

If you are an administrator on the account, you¡¯ll see the sub-tabs that list the Assets, Goals, Users, Filters, and Profile Settings that are associated with the profile. 
You¡¯ll also see the ¡°Plus New Profile¡± button ¨C which you can use to create a new profile.

But, if you are not an administrator, you¡¯ll only see the Assets tab. 
That¡¯s because you need to be an admnistrator to add new profiles or to edit a profile¡¯s goals, users, filters, and settings.

However, you don¡¯t need to be an administrator to add or edit assets.
This includes advanced segments, annotations, and custom alerts.

Each profile has its own goals, which you set on the goals sub-tab.
You control who has access to the profile via the Users sub-tab.
And, you can use the Filters sub-tab to control what data is included in the profile.
The Profile Settings sub-tab is where you enable e-commerce and site search reports, set your preferred time zone, and other settings.
To remove a profile, you can simply click Delete this profile on the Profile Settings sub-tab. You¡¯ll need to be an Administrator to do this.
 Be careful that you are deleting the correct profile, because you won¡¯t be able to recover the historical data for the profile once it¡¯s been deleted.

