With Advanced Segments, you can quickly isolate and analyze subsets of your traffic.
You can create an advanced segment that only includes visits that meet a specific set of criteria.

So, for example you can create an advanced segment that only includes visits from a certain geographic region or visits during which more than $100 was spent.
While it's possible to create filtered profiles that segment traffic data, there are some differences between filtered profiles and advanced segments. 
Advanced segments can be applied to historical data, but a filtered profile will only filter traffic going forward. When you create an advanced segment, that segment is available across all of your accounts and profiles. But, a filtered profile is only useful for a specific web property. You can compare up to four advanced segments side by side in your reports.  In contrast, filtered profiles can only be viewed one at a time. It is much easier to create an advanced segment than it is to create a filtered profile.  
If you want to permanently affect the data that a profile shows, you should use a filtered profile. So if you want a profile that only shows CPC data, you should set up a filtered profile to do this. 
And if you want to restrict user access to only a subset of data, the best way to do this is to set up a filtered profile and restrict the users' access to only that profile. 
While it's possible to create filtered profiles that segment traffic data, there are some differences between filtered profiles and advanced segments. 
Advanced segments can be applied to historical data, but a filtered profile will only filter traffic going forward. When you create an advanced segment, that segment is available across all of your accounts and profiles. But, a filtered profile is only useful for a specific web property. You can compare up to four advanced segments side by side in your reports.  In contrast, filtered profiles can only be viewed one at a time. It is much easier to create an advanced segment than it is to create a filtered profile.  
If you want to permanently affect the data that a profile shows, you should use a filtered profile. So if you want a profile that only shows CPC data, you should set up a filtered profile to do this. 
And if you want to restrict user access to only a subset of data, the best way to do this is to set up a filtered profile and restrict the users' access to only that profile. 
Once you¡¯ve applied one or more advanced segments, you can see the data for the segments throughout all of your reports. 
You can also change your date range and see the segments applied to historical data. 
The segments remain applied until you deselect them or you logoff.
Let¡¯s create an advanced segment that only includes visits during which more than $100 was spent.
Begin by clicking the Advanced Segments pulldown.

Next, click Create a new advanced segment.


Now you¡¯ll see a screen that looks like this.
Using this screen, you can combine one or more logical statements to define a segment.


To include only visits during more than $100 was spent, first look for the metric Revenue.
It¡¯s usually easiest to type what you are looking for into the search box, but you can also browse the complete list of metrics and dimensions.

Select the condition Greater than and specify 100.






Click Preview Segment and you can see the percentage of total visits that are included in the segment.

You can add as many conditions to the segment as you like. When you¡¯ve finished, click Save Segment.




The segment will now appear in the Custom Segments area of the Advanced Segments pulldown.




