Google Analytics provides internal site search reports that allow you to see how people search once they¡¯ve arrived at your site. 


So why analyze how people search your site? 

On both large and small sites, visitors frequently use search boxes as a form of navigation. 

By looking at what people search for,  you can identify missing or hidden content on your site, improve search results for key phrases, and even get ideas for new keywords to use in marketing campaigns.
In order to set up Site Search Tracking for your website, you¡¯ll need to configure your Profile settings. 

Click the account administration icon at the top right of any screen in Analytics.
Then navigate to the account, web property, and profile for which you want to enable Site Search reports.


In the Site Search Settings section, select the 'Do Track Site Search' radio button. 

In the  'Query Parameter'  field, enter the letter, word or words that designate an internal query parameter. 

To find out what the query parameter is, perform a search on your site. 

Normally when a user searches on your site, their query can be found in the URL. 

For example, if you search on Google.com, you will see your search query preceded by 'q='. Therefore, Google's query parameter would be 'q.' 

In the example above, the query parameter is 'q,' and the query was 'Google Analytics¡¯

What is the query parameter in this example?

Look at the URL that¡¯s generated by your search. You should be able to find your query and the query parameter in the URL.

In this case, the search query was ¡°creating a profile¡± and you can see that the query parameter is ¡°query¡±.

Your parameter might be different -- it could be the word "term¡± or ¡°search¡±,

Or it might be just a letter, like "s" or ¡±p". 


If you have a particularly large site, some sections of your site may use different query parameters.

You may provide up to five parameters, separating each parameter by a comma. 

Next, select whether or not you want Google Analytics to strip out the query parameter from your URL. 

Stripping out the query parameter has the same effect as excluding URL Query Parameters under Profile Settings General Information.
So, if you choose to strip the query parameters, you don't have to also exclude them from your main settings.

Note that Google Analytics will only strip out the query parameters you listed, and not any other parameters in the same URL.


If you use 'Categories¡® on your site - such as the ability to use drop-down menus to narrow a search - you can include categories in your search analytics.  
First, select the ¡°Site search categories¡± checkbox.

Then, enter your 'Category Parameter' in the field provided. Enter only the letters that designate an internal query category such as 'cat, qc,'. 

The same principle that you used to identify the query parameter can be used to identify the category parameter. 
Or, you can contact your webmaster to identify the query and category parameters for your site.

Decide if you want to strip out the category parameters that you just provided. If you select the checkbox, only the parameters you provided will be stripped out. 
As with the query parameter setting, this has the same effect as excluding URL Query Parameters in the General Information section. 
So, if you choose to strip the category parameters here, you don't have to exclude them again from your main settings.

Click ¡¯Apply' to finish.


To find the Site Search reports,  click Site Search under Content.
The Site Search Usage report compares visitors who used site search to those who did not. 
Here we can see that 19% of all visits to this site included a search. 

Just above the pie-chart, you¡¯ll notice two dropdown menus. if you select Goal Conversion Rate in the left-most dropdown, you can see how visits that included search compare to visits that did not include search with respect to conversions. 

And, you can click the ecommerce tab to see how revenue and other ecommerce metrics differ for visits with and without site search.


The Search Terms report only includes visits during which a search was performed. 

From the screenshot on the slide, you can see that there were 76, 331 total unique searches. 
The search terms are listed in the table. 
You can see how each term compares in terms of number of searches, percentage of search refinements, and other metrics.

Looking at the search terms that people use to search once they are on your site can give you ideas for keywords that might also help drive traffic to your site. 

You can look at this traffic by another dimension. For example, if you wanted to see which cities these visitors came from, you could select City from the Dimension dropdown.
Start Pages lists all of the pages from which visitors searched.
To find Start Pages, click Pages under Site Search. Then, select ¡°Start Page¡± as the viewing option above the table. 

Click on a page in the table to learn more about the searches that occurred from that page. A detail report will appear which lists all of the search terms that were used from that page.

You can use this report to find out what visitors are searching for from your landing pages and you can use the information to improve the page content.

For example, if many visitors search on "shipping options" from your shopping cart page, you may want to display shipping information directly on the page. 
Which pages are most commonly found through search on your site? Destination Pages tells you.
To find Destination Pages, click Pages under Site Search. Then, select ¡°Destination Page¡± as the viewing option above the table. 

The table shows popular destination pages.
Click on a page in the table to see the specific search terms that led to the page. 
You can see which categories your visitors selected when searching your site.
Go to the Search Terms report and click ¡°Site Search Category¡± as the viewing option. 

This information helps you understand how visitors use your search engine, which product areas and categories are most popular, and how successfully visitors find what they are looking for in each category.  
Your Site Search reports will generally show a different number of conversions than what is shown in all of your other reports.

This is because goal conversions in the Site Search reports are based on visits that include at least one search on your website whereas the goal conversions shown in all other reports are based on all visits.

Because Site Search reports only include conversions from visits that included a search, you can see how effectively searches on your site drive conversions. 

If you are confused about the difference between ¡°search term¡± and ¡°keyword¡±, it¡¯s helpful to remember that Google Analytics reports use ¡°search term¡± when referring to internal site searches and ¡°keyword¡± when referring to external searches.

